Docker Compose - Part -1

The Docker Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. It allows you to define the services, networks, and volumes needed for your application in a single file, called docker-compose.yml, and then spin up all these containers with a single command.

**Services:**

- Docker Compose allows you to define multiple services within your application, each of which typically corresponds to a container.


- Each service is defined using a set of parameters like image, ports, volumes, environment variables, etc.

**Networking:**

- Docker Compose automatically creates a default network for your application, allowing the services to communicate with each other.

- You can also define custom networks to control how services communicate.

**Volumes:**

- Volumes can be defined to persist data generated by containers.

- Docker Compose allows you to define volumes and mount them into containers, ensuring data persistence even if the container is destroyed.

**Configuration:**

- All configurations for your multi-container application are defined in a YAML file (docker-compose.yml by default).

- This file specifies the services, networks, volumes, and other options necessary for your application.

**Some Basic Commands for Docker Compose :**

		docker-compose up

- This above command creates and starts all the services defined in the docker-compose.yml file.

- If no docker-compose.yml file is specified, Compose looks for one in the current directory.

		docker-compose down

- This above command stops and removes all the containers defined in the docker-compose.yml file.

- It also removes networks and volumes associated with the services.

		docker-compose build

- This above command is used to build or rebuild services defined in the docker-compose.yml file.

- It rebuilds images if the Dockerfile or any related files have changed.

		docker-compose start/stop/restart

- These above commands respectively start, stop, or restart services defined in the **docker-compose.yml** file.

		docker-compose logs

- This above command is used to view the logs generated by all containers in the application.



